feat: add aws Lambda instrumentation (#721)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-ruby-contrib: instrumentation/aws_lambda/README.md

# OpenTelemetry AWS-Lambda Instrumentation

The OpenTelemetry `aws-lambda` gem is a community maintained instrumentation for [aws-sdk-lambda][aws-sdk-lambda].

## How do I get started?

Install the gem using:

```
gem install opentelemetry-instrumentation-aws_lambda
```

> Or, if you use [bundler][bundler-home], include `opentelemetry-instrumentation-aws_lambda` in your `Gemfile`.

Author: No, I don't think we should ask user to install this gem. The [layer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda/blob/main/ruby/src/layer/Gemfile) should include everything they need to instrument aws instrumentation.

p.s. we should remove install all instrumentation like [line 5](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda/blob/main/ruby/src/layer/Gemfile#L5), and just install this aws lambda instrumentation

> ## How do I get started?
> 
> Install the gem using:
> 
> ```
> gem install opentelemetry-instrumentation-aws_lambda
> ```
> 
> Or, if you use [bundler][bundler-home], include `opentelemetry-instrumentation-aws_lambda` in your `Gemfile`.

Reviewer: @xuan-cao-swi  - Does this sound like the right process to have someone start using the OpenTelemetry instrumentation in their Ruby lambda?

```suggestion
## How do I get started? 

Installation of the `opentelemetry-instrumentation-aws_lambda` gem is handled by the [OpenTelemetry Lambda Layer for Ruby](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda/tree/main/ruby). 

We do not advise installing the `opentelemetry-instrumentation-aws_lambda` gem directly into your Ruby lambda. Instead, clone the [OpenTelemetry Lambda Layer for Ruby](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda/tree/main/ruby) and build the layer locally. Then, save it in your AWS account.
```

## Usage

> From the Lambda Layer side, create the wrapper. More information can be found at https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda

Author: Yes, I can create PR to add that in their README along with the PR that add wrapper to point to this instrumentation.

> If Ruby's present on the main repo README, then I think we might not need the link to the specific Ruby directory.

Agree

> From the Lambda Layer side, create the wrapper. More information can be found at https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda/tree/main/ruby

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the Lambda Layer side, create the wrapper. More information can be found at https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda/tree/main/ruby

Below is an example of `ruby/src/layer/wrapper.rb`, where you can configure the layer to suit your needs before building it:
```

Author: Yes, I think it's great!

> ```ruby

Reviewer: I was kind of surprised when I took a look at the opentelemetry lambda's [ruby/layer/src](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda/tree/main/ruby/src/layer) directory. I didn't see a `wrapper.rb` file. Is this something that users need to make? 
Is there more that needs to be done to the layer repo before both pieces are ready?

Author: Yes, I will work on creating the wrapper.rb in that directory once this pr is ready (or published).
Since wrapper.rb needs the lambda instrumentation to work, so I thought to wait for this PR.
For example, [python wrapper.rb](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda/blob/main/python/src/otel/otel_sdk/otel_wrapper.py#L40) needs the instrumentation as well.

Reviewer: Got it, that makes sense. Thank you!

require 'opentelemetry/sdk'

> require 'opentelemetry/instrumentation/all'

Author: It actually just need require opentelemetry-instrumentation-lambda for the access of handler class. I have changed the README.

OpenTelemetry::SDK.configure do |c|
  c.service_name = '<YOUR_SERVICE_NAME>'
  c.use 'OpenTelemetry::Instrumentation::AwsLambda'
end

> def otel_wrapper(event:, context:)

Author: otel_wrapper is a custom script that is provided by user (mostly included in layer itself, see this [example](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-lambda/blob/main/python/src/otel/otel_sdk/otel_wrapper.py) from python). And in aws lambda configuration, user can specify the location of wrapper through [AWS_LAMBDA_EXEC_WRAPPER](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/runtimes-modify.html).

The call sequence will be: wrapper -> opentelemetry-instrumentation-aws-lambda's handler -> user's lambda function

> def otel_wrapper(event:, context:)

Author: > Do you have to do this yourself everytime in the lambda script?

No, it should be setup in wrapper script, which will be loaded in runtime from created layer.

> Would it make sense to add a creation method or command method or something?

It kind need initialize first to resolve the original function, and rest of other language seems use this convention.
